



WG Working Group                                                 R. Salz
Internet-Draft                                       Akamai Technologies
Intended status: Best Current Practice                  20 December 2022
Expires: 23 June 2023


                      Less work for Area Directors
                    draft-rsalz-less-ad-work-latest

Abstract

   This draft proposes a number of ways that the Area Director workload
   can be reduced.  It will be up to the IETF consensus process to set
   the final list.

   A major goal of this effort is to make it feasible for a wider
   diversity of people to volunteer as a candidate for AD.  Anecdotally,
   every IESG complains about the AD workload, and says that it takes
   the first full term to understand the job.

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   The latest revision of this draft can be found at
   https://example.com/LATEST.  Status information for this document may
   be found at https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-rsalz-less-ad-
   work/.

   Discussion of this document takes place on the WG Working Group
   mailing list (mailto:WG@example.com), which is archived at
   https://example.com/WG.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/USER/REPO.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 23 June 2023.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Conventions and Definitions
   3.  Recommendations/Suggestions
     3.1.  Only one AD to approve
     3.2.  No "revisit" documents open across change-over
     3.3.  Documents, not scheduling
     3.4.  Content not language
   4.  Increasing the candidate pool
     4.1.  Reimburse travel
     4.2.  Pre-AD training
   5.  Security Considerations
   6.  IANA Considerations
   7.  Normative References
   Acknowledgments
   Author's Address

1.  Introduction

   Repeat the abstract.

2.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

3.  Recommendations/Suggestions

3.1.  Only one AD to approve

   A document should only require one AD in each area to approve.

3.2.  No "revisit" documents open across change-over

   A new AD should not add be able to add work on authors, or for them.
   If a previous AD did a poor job, it must be a public IESG decision
   that the previous ballot should be ignored.

3.3.  Documents, not scheduling

   What is the rationale for the IESG setting meeting logistics?

3.4.  Content not language

   It is not an effectiv use of technical experts to review and correct
   for things like typo's, etc.  We recognize that many ADs will, be
   "unable to help themselves."  We suggest that ADs can point out
   things that are not clear, and if there are many of them, feel free
   to send the document back to the WG.  This will be hard, particularly
   for contributors were English is not their native language.  Perhaps
   the IETF can offer resources to help with this before a document gets
   to the RFC Production Center (which is more focused on copyediting,
   anyway).

4.  Increasing the candidate pool

   This document offers a number of suggestions to reduce the workload
   of an IETF Area Director.  Previous NomCom's have repeatedly heard
   that the effort is involved is a full-time job.  Few companies other
   than large IT or Internet firms, can afford this.  This document
   offers some suggestions, in addition to reducing the workload, that
   might help increase the diversity of candidates.

4.1.  Reimburse travel

   Might help get more volunteers from other (less-wealthy? smaller
   companies?) parts of the world.  We have learned to accomodate more
   remote meetings, perhaps that is enough.

4.2.  Pre-AD training

   "So you want to be an AD" could be worthwhile training to offer.  Of
   course the IESG and the way the work vary, and it would have to be
   done in consultation with them, but this might be interesting.

5.  Security Considerations

   There are no security considerations.

6.  IANA Considerations

   This document has no IANA actions.

7.  Normative References

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

Acknowledgments

   None yet.

Author's Address

   Rich Salz
   Akamai Technologies
   Email: rsalz@akamai.com
