



GENDISPATCH Working Group                                      A. Farrel
Internet-Draft                                        Old Dog Consulting
Intended status: Best Current Practice                     19 April 2023
Expires: 21 October 2023


                  Making Less Work for Area Directors
                    draft-rsalz-less-ad-work-latest

Abstract

   Anecdotally, every IESG complains about the Area Director (AD)
   workload, and says that it takes the first full term to understand
   the job.  Empirically, the AD workload is high sometimes causing
   backlogs in processing of Internet-Drafts and stressing the ADs.

   Empirically, the AD workload is high sometimes causing backlogs in
   processing of Internet-Drafts and stressing the ADs.  This is
   evidenced by the limits applied to the number of pages on the regular
   IESG telechats, and by the number of documents waiting in excess of
   fifty days for initial AD review after a working group has requested
   publication.

   This document proposes a number of ways that the AD workload can be
   reduced.  It will be up to the IETF consensus process to determine
   which proposals to adopt.

   A major goal of this effort is to make it feasible for a wider
   diversity of people to volunteer as candidates for AD possitions by
   reducing the barriers and costs to individuals and their employers.

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   Status information for this document may be found at
   https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-rsalz-less-ad-work/.

   Discussion of this document takes place on the GENDISPATCH Working
   Group mailing list (mailto:gendispatch@ietf.org), which is archived
   at https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/browse/gendispatch/.  Subscribe
   at https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/gendispatch/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/rsalz/ietf-less-ad-work.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 21 October 2023.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Conventions and Definitions
   3.  History of IESG Job Descriptions
   4.  Rationale
   5.  Recommendations/Suggestions
     5.1.  Only one AD to approve
     5.2.  No "revisit" documents open across change-over
     5.3.  Documents, not scheduling
     5.4.  Content not language
   6.  Increasing the candidate pool
   7.  Security Considerations
   8.  IANA Considerations
   9.  References
     9.1.  Normative References
     9.2.  Informative References
   Acknowledgments
   Author's Address

1.  Introduction

   Anecdotally, every IESG complains about the Area Director (AD)
   workload, and says that it takes the first full term to understand
   the job.  This implies that a successful AD will need to serve at
   least two terms to be effective, making the role a commitment of at
   least four years.

   Empirically, the AD workload is high sometimes causing backlogs in
   processing of Internet-Drafts and stressing the ADs.  This is
   evidenced by the limits applied to the number of pages on the regular
   IESG telechats, and by the number of documents waiting in excess of
   fifty days for initial AD review after a working group has requested
   publication.

   This document proposes a number of ways that the AD workload can be
   reduced.  These proposals are intended for discussion and adoption
   either individually or in groups such that no one suggestion shall be
   blocked by discussions of the others.  It will be up to the IETF
   consensus process to determine which proposals to adopt.

   A major goal of this effort is to make it feasible for a wider
   diversity of people to volunteer as candidates for AD possitions by
   reducing the barriers and costs to individuals and their employers.

2.  Conventions and Definitions

      *DISCUSSION* Probably delete this section.

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

3.  History of IESG Job Descriptions

   The IETF Nominations Committee (NomCom) appoints ADs to the IESG
   according to their judgement, but taking feedback from the community
   on the suitability of the candidates, and considering the job
   descriptions provided by the sitting IESG.  It is useful to look at
   the job descriptions provided to the NomCom over the years.

   In 2013, the first year for which the job description is preserved in
   the datatracker, the description said

      The basic IESG activities can consume between 15-40 hours a week.

   In 2017, this changed to

      The ability to contribute more time is useful, but if the NomCom
      should pick a few ADs who can only do 15 hrs/week on a routine
      basis, the IESG can cope with that.

   Starting with the 2018 NomCom, this changed to the following

      Many ADs allocate 15 hours or more per week...

   This boilerplate has been unchanged in the five years since then.

   At the same time (2018), the descriptiuon added text to say

      Enough time must be allocated to manage approximately 10 to 15
      working groups, [and] to read on the order of 500 pages of
      internet-drafts every two weeks

   This text has also not changed in the last five years.

      *TODO:* Would be interesting to find out why this changed.

   The IESG secretary says that this past year (ending in March), the
   IESG has requested agenda's be limited to 400 pages.

      *TODO:* Get pagecounts for the past several years; maybe from the
      sodastream folks?  From the datatracker?  The Secretariat says
      they do not not have access to this historic data.

4.  Rationale

   We want the IESG to be staffed with the best possible people with the
   appropriate technical and management skills.  In order to achieve
   this, the job must be achievable, rewarding, and not an insuferable
   strain on the ADs.  But the high workload and constnt stress mean
   that this is not always possible.

   At the same time, the ADs must be funded, and this is usually by
   their employers.  But, although some companies consider funding an AD
   as "paying the Internet tax," the companies are being asked to
   release the time of one of their key engineers for no or little
   direct return.  At the least, they hope that some of their
   employees's time will be available for work within the company; that
   is, that the AD job will not be a full time job.  Furthermore, as it
   is often claimed that an AD does not become fully effective until
   their second term, the role implies a commitment from the AD and
   their employer of at least four years.

   The current requirement is not sustainable, and leads to the
   centralization of technical leadership in only the largest companies
   -- those that can afford the costs and mitigate the loss of a key
   worker.  Of the 14 Area Directors in March 2023, eight (more than
   half) work for the one of the 2,000 largest global companies [FORBES]
   or a subsidiary.  Of course, this is a generalization -- there have
   been multiple ADs who came from Academia or worked for smaller
   companies.

   In order to make the AD positions (except for the IETF Chair) more
   accessible to candidates from different backgrounds and companies,
   the IETF needs to make the AD job less time-consuming.

      *TODO:* Look at previous IESG membership.

5.  Recommendations/Suggestions

5.1.  Only one AD to approve

   An Internet-Draft ballot should allow only one AD in each area to
   vote.  The other director(s) can either vote "no objection" or the
   ballot tracking can be modified to handle this more directly.
   Coordination between area ADs is left to them to handle; this
   document suggests that the _non-responsible_ AD be the one to vote.
   During discussion, all ADs should participate.

   For any area with a directorate, the default ballot position should
   be to accept that review, if one is given.

      *DISCUSSION* I'm not clear on this idea.  Is it based on a
      misunderstanding of the current requirements?  Currently, no AD is
      required to ballot on any document, although it might be
      considered as bad manners to not ballot.  However, a "no
      objection" doesn't require a review, and indeed many ADs trust
      their co-ADs or the sponsoring AD.  I believe that the IESG would
      respond in the same way: that the reviews are not the problem.

      This might, however, turn into advice and guidance phrased as
      "expectations and non-expectations for document review during IESG
      evalutaion."  It could cover: - trusting other ADs - sharing
      review responsibilities between ADs - delegation of review to
      others such as Directorates - the meaning of "no objection"

      We might, however, look again at the number of "no objections"
      required for a ballot to pass on a standards track draft because
      it could be claimed that this puts additional pressure on ADs to
      do reviews.  I don't think this needs to be done, because I think
      that ADs need to understand better that "no objection" can be
      entered without doing a review.

5.2.  No "revisit" documents open across change-over

   Any ballots cast before an AD change-over should stand.  Notably, any
   DISCUSS issues, if resolved, should result in clearing and allowing
   the former AD to ballot.  This is similar to the NomCom term of
   office, which lasts until the next NomCom is seated.  Perhaps a time-
   limit of a year or six months should be added, allowing a reasonable
   time for the document queue to drain.

   An incoming AD would have to review the in-process draft, and while
   the number of such documents might be small, the potential impact on
   the amount of effort on the document authors, not to mention their
   morale -- "what, we have to do this again?" -- can be significant.

5.3.  Documents, not scheduling

   What is the rationale for the IESG setting meeting logistics?  How
   much time is consumed with scheduling?

   We have professional staff, with Board oversight, and consultations.
   The meeting venue requirements are being discussed as an update to
   [RFC8718] and any policy changes will be acted on.

      *DISCUSSION* Isn't this an example of the issue rather than the
      problem itself?  Should we rephrase this more along the line of
      "priorities"?  That is, once the ADs have done "facilitating" the
      work of the working groups, they are free to spend their time on
      anything they like.  But actually, the IESG would always say that
      they are making daily decisions about the priority of what they
      spend their time on.  They would say that one of their jobs is to
      look at the IETF and see what needs them to act, and that
      sometimes this results in documents being delayed in favour of
      other tasks.  So what is needed is to give the IESG instructions
      about priorities and what tasks to drop.  This can go further by
      listing the tasks that should be done by others, but it is hard to
      make such a long list: it is easier to list the tasks that should
      be done first.

5.4.  Content not language

   It is not an effective use of technical experts to review and correct
   for things like typo's, etc.  We recognize that many ADs will be
   "unable to help themselves" as the personality trait of nit-picking
   is endemic to our profession, and they should feel free to point out
   nits, but they should be conscious of the time and effort involved.

   If a document lacks clarity or has so many issues with English that
   there is a risk of it being misunderstood, the AD should recognise
   this and feel free to send the document back to the WG for the
   authors to fix.  This may be hard, particularly for contributors
   where English is not their native language, but all working groups
   have the resources to help with this.

      *CITATION* I think it was the MPLS WG that instituted an English
      language review team.

   We also note that the existing RFC Production Center is already
   highly focused on copyediting.

6.  Increasing the candidate pool

   This document offers a number of suggestions to reduce the workload
   of an IETF Area Director, in the hopes that it will increase the
   diversity of candidates.

   The IETF has learned to accomodate to remote meetings, if in-person
   attendance at IESG meetings is perceived as a requirement, perhaps
   that should be explicitly discussed.

7.  Security Considerations

   This document could change the IESG review process.

8.  IANA Considerations

   This document has no IANA actions.

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

9.2.  Informative References

   [FORBES]   Forbes Magazine, "The Global 2000", 2022,
              <https://www.forbes.com/lists/
              global2000/?sh=3d73be235ac0>.

   [RFC8718]  Lear, E., Ed., "IETF Plenary Meeting Venue Selection
              Process", BCP 226, RFC 8718, DOI 10.17487/RFC8718,
              February 2020, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8718>.

Acknowledgments

   None yet.

Author's Address

   Adrian Farrel
   Old Dog Consulting
   Email: adrian@olddog.co.uk
